# Final Part One: Initial Planning

This is part one of my final project. I will describe my project outline, provide some initial sketches, share the data, and discuss the methods for the final design.

# Project Outline

For my final project, I want to use data visualizations to tell the story of the affordable housing crisis in America. I think this is a topic that has not gotten the attention it deserves, but has been brought to light more due to the COVID-19 pandemic. I want to show the dire situation America is in, but then offer a solution that readers can advocate for to improve housing in America: a universial housing program.

I was inspired to dive into affordable housing after reading Evicted by Matthew Desmond. I think the reason his book was so engaging was because it followed real people through their struggles with housing. So, to start my story, I will have a short introduction of a fictional family and their struggle with housing in order to illustrate the importance of the issue by tying it to a human experience. I may try to connect it to the pandemic because I think the pandemic has gotten more people aware of the affordable housing crisis America has. I want to have some sort of graphic depicting how imperative affordable and safe housing is for wellbeing and escaping the cycle of poverty, but I am not sure if it will go in the introduction or somewhere else in the story. I will then go into a very brief history and explaination of Section 8 housing vouchers to orient the reader into what the current system is like in America, but I do not want to spend too much time because I think it is a little boring if I go too in depth. This could include a simple timeline if necessary, but I am not certain on that. Next, I will show the ineffectiveness of the program with visuals. I am wanting to use visualizations to show how many eligible people actually receive vouchers, how much of a paycheck rent-burden people have to spend on housing, evictions in America, and potentially how much America spends on affordable housing compared to other programs/agencies. At this point, my readers should be unhappy with the current situation in America, and I then want to show them that there is another way. I will introduced what a universal housing program is, and what it could look like in America. I am wanting to use contrasting visuals to what I used to show the current system based on what the program would entail and using data/examples from countries that have a universal housing program. After showing the readers what America's affordable housing system could look like, I will urge the readers to contact their representatives and ask them to support any policies expanding access to affordable housing, as well as urge them to look into how they can help low-income, rent-burdened people in their communities, whether through mutal aid funds, advocating for more affordable housing in their neighborhoods, or working with local renter's rights groups.

# Initial Sketches

# Data

# Methods and Mediums
